# yaca

Yaca is a code assistant for developers, providing performant and efficient code completions for Visual Studio Code users. It offers two primary uses: code completions and code completions with chat.

## Running Yaca

1. Navigate to this repository

```bash
cd yaca
```

2. Install dependencies for yarn

```bash
yarn
```

3. Install vs-code extensions:

-   `amodio.tsl-problem-matcher`
-   `ms-vscode.extension-test-runner`
-   `dbaeumer.vscode-eslint`

4. Start the extension

-   Run `yarn watch` to start the extension in watch mode.
-   **Press `F5`** to open a new window with your extension loaded.
-   **Run your command** from the command palette by pressing (`Ctrl+Shift+P` or `Cmd+Shift+P` on Mac) and typing `Hello World`.

5. Run the backend: When running this directory, one must ensure that the backend is running. The backend can be found in the `yaca-backend` directory. To run the backend, follow the instructions in the `yaca-backend` directory. This frontend is configured to run on `localhost:5000`; further configuration will be necessary if the backend is running on a different port or host.

6. Making changes:

-   **Relaunch the extension** from the debug toolbar after changing code in `src/extension.ts`.
-   **Reload the VS Code window** with your extension by pressing (`Ctrl+R` or `Cmd+R` on Mac) to load your changes.

More details for running the extension can be found in the [vsc-extension-quickstart.md](./vsc-extension-quickstart.md) file, which was auto-generated by the VS Code extension template.
